RHDEVDOCS-6248: Content creation for traffic and metric plugins in Argo rollouts (#84875)
openshift/openshift-docs: argo_rollouts/configuring_traffic_management_and_metric_plugins_in_argo_rollouts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

> [id="configuring_traffic_management_and_metric_plugins_in_argo_rollouts_{context}"]

Reviewer: Assembly metadata doesn't need a _{context}, see https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assembly-file-metadata

> [id="configuring_traffic_management_and_metric_plugins_in_argo_rollouts_{context}"]

Author: Fixed.

> = Configuring Traffic management and Metric plugins in Argo Rollouts

Author: Fixed.

> = Configuring Traffic management and Metric plugins in Argo Rollouts

Author: Fixed.

:context: enable-support-for-namespace-scoped-argo-rollouts-installation

toc::[]

> Argo Rollouts now supports configuring traffic management and metric plugins directly through the `RolloutManager` Custom Resource (CR). The native support for these plugins in Argo Rollouts eliminates the need to modify the ConfigMap manually, ensuring a consistent configuration across the system. As a result, Argo Rollouts no longer preserves user-defined plugins in the ConfigMap; instead, it only applies to the plugins specified within the `RolloutManager` CR. By managing plugins directly within the `RolloutManager` CR, you can:

Reviewer: - For ConfigMap, see https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map, maybe you need backticks if you need to leave it as one word
- you need to have a complete sentence before the colon and list per IBMSG.

> Argo Rollouts now supports configuring traffic management and metric plugins directly through the `RolloutManager` Custom Resource (CR). The native support for these plugins in Argo Rollouts eliminates the need to modify the ConfigMap manually, ensuring a consistent configuration across the system. As a result, Argo Rollouts no longer preserves user-defined plugins in the ConfigMap; instead, it only applies to the plugins specified within the `RolloutManager` CR. By managing plugins directly within the `RolloutManager` CR, you can:

Author: Fixed.

* Centralize plugin configuration control.

> * Avoid conflicts between the `RolloutManager` CR and ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Avoid conflicts between the `RolloutManager` CR and config map.
```

Author: Fixed.

* Simplify plugin management by allowing easy addition, removal, or modification of plugins without editing the ConfigMap directly.

> The traffic management plugin controls how traffic routes between different versions of your application during a rollout, while the metric plugin collects and evaluates metrics to determine the success or failure of a rollout. By analyzing predefined success or failure criteria, these plugins automate decisions throughout the rollout process, helping ensure that deployments succeed or roll back as needed.

Author: Fixed.

[id="prerequisites_{context}"]
== Prerequisites
* You have logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.
* You have access to the {OCP} web console.
* You have installed xref:../installing_gitops/installing-openshift-gitops.adoc#installing-openshift-gitops[{gitops-title}] on your {OCP} cluster.
* You have installed xref:../argo_rollouts/using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery.adoc#gitops-creating-rolloutmanager-custom-resource_using-argo-rollouts-for-progressive-deployment-delivery[Argo Rollouts] on your {OCP} cluster.

// Enabling Traffic management and Metric plugins in Argo Rollouts
include::modules/gitops-enable-traffic-management-and-metric-plugins-in-argo-rollouts.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_{context}"]
== Additional resources

> * link:https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/traffic-management/plugins/#rollouts-plugin-trafficrouter-sample-nginx[Traffic router plugin]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/traffic-management/plugins/#traffic-router-plugins[Traffic router plugin]
```

Author: Fixed.
